yes they changed because I got more frustrated that it didnt do what I wanted and it did the same thing (basically ignoring me and talking about what they wanted) every time

Yes they changed. For neutral case scores were lower and I felt more "robotic" interactions, while for the second case the interactions felt a bit more natural

I think my individual preference for Pepper increased because we conversed in my native tongue.

My answers didn't change much, although I did notice a difference in language.

Yes I think my answers to the questionnaires changed a bit, because when the robot speaks mz national language (german), it directly feels more german. Espacially knowing about the different cultures in germany. I did not feel a big difference between nr. 1 and 3. culturally, but the adaptiveness showed a little when the robot asked me where it should stand and which tone to use for the conversation, but both did not feel especially german to me. 

I felt pepper closer to me when it was communicating in my native language, and that partially influenced my answers

Yes it did. I think because I might have some expectations about how good communication is supposed to be and if the robot adjusts its interactions with me according to my native language and communication style it will appear as more competent and natural to me

first of all i think i was more relaxed and talkative the further time went on. i think it all happened, because the robot was more active and acutally asked me things back. i think my answers differed, becuase i found the robot more or less (sympatisch) in the different trys, it also depended on wether he responded more or less to my answers.

yes, it felt confusing and out of context the adaptive one

I think my answers changed between the first and second interactions, because Pepper sounded a little bit "weirder" the first time in Italian than it was in English, but they changed more between the second and the third since I noticed a bigger difference in Pepper's interactions

Yes, i felt more comfortable talking during the second interaction. I would mostly attribute this to the responsivness of Pepper though as it did not cut me off as often.

not really, the robot seemed to have a similar personality and wanted to talk about cultures and linguistics. Furthermore he got confused often times with my orders, and at some point he startet speakig Italian, and I didnt know what to ask/response anymore.

I do not remember all the values I gave to each of the questions. I might have given a higher point (maybe one only) in a few. But over all my experience with the robot has not improved.

Yes it changed, mainly because there was very little interaction in the first part. But also the talk about tea and coffee in the morning was human like and therefore it felt like Pepper was more ready to interact with human.

Yes it definitely changed. When talking to Pepper in Italian, I felt like it was a stretch. When talking in English it felt more like a natural conversation between me and something that would be in my house helping.

I believe I was more relaxed and funny in my native language, but the I kept the overall answers to the questionnare the same. I do believe that when talking in italian Pepper was a bit more 'italian' in being more approachable. 

yes they slighlty changed because i could grasp that the robot knew about my culture (even though i have to say when talking in italian to them i specifically asked about my home city). Overall though i didn't perceive much of a difference between the two interactions).

I gave lower scores after the neutral interaction as I perceived the national knowledge was lowest overall, as this was the last interaction I completed.

The answers changed only very slightly, I didn't perceive big differences in the different communication ways.

Yes, but not because I noticed the difference in interaction, but rather because I talked more to the robot in the second interaction because I knew how it worked better

Yes. The National Knowledge was acting less interactive and it was less interesting to  talk to. He also looked like a bit less competent. 

Yes, a little bit. The neutral one seemed to interact better than the national knowledge one, I had fewer problems in the interaction and he was more responsive in the communication than the other one. 

yes, the interaction with the robot was much smoother in the neutral case. It seemed much more responsive and interactive. This might be due to the fact that english language is much better supported in technological applications.

I felt I change my interactions when the robot was switching languages. For some reason I was more interested in some topics when he was talking in English and other topic when he was talking in Italian. I felt it was more natural in English

The conversation i have was quite similar and we talked about the same things. but the national knowledge section was a more 'normal' and fluid conversation and i felt that pepper was more responsive and capable 

1. in this scenario I ranked the functions much higher, because the robot interacted with me the most. It answered to questions and repeated his questions, when I asked it to. In the National Knowledge Part I didnt understand the get the pronounciation of the word it was asking me about, since it has two different meanings in germen. When I asked which one it meant, it just assumed an answer.

I adjusted my answers probably more because I felt like I got to know the Robot better the more interactions we had instead of based on large differences I percieved between the two interactions (I had national knowledge first, then neutral)

In the neutral interaction the robot was much more talkative than in the national knowledge one, and i felt like it came closer and wanted to interact more

Zes, i answered the two differenlty but the differences were quite small. I felt like the national knowledge run, the robot responded better even to "slang" in German. It was easier to uphold a conversation because it was more capable of giving good starters and continue the talk. howver, the topic changes were surprising and it was sometims quite a big jump to different topics that were not related - this was the case for both neutral and national knowledge. Furthermore, I had the feeling that the neutral interaction round was more general and formal and not as specific as the national knowledge round in terms of topics and responses.

Yes the answers changed slightlz because the robot was speaking German, so the experience felt differently.  

I felt comfortable when the robot used my native language and communicaton style

For 2., the robot spoke to me in German and was direct, which is a key element of German communication. For 1., the robot asked me whether I preferred communication based on implicit knowledge or not, and I very much prefer communication based on implicit knowledge. I cannot remember my answers perfectly, but in the first round (2.) I think I deemed the robot to be pretty incompetent and misaligned with the values of Germany, but I think that this is the case because I could not compare it to anything. I think that when the robot was neutral, I find that it was a little bit more incompetent. Given that I had the neutral version in the final round, I was more familiar with the robot and gave it higher scores, because the second round (adaptive) was the robot's worst round, so in comparison it seemed more competent in the third round. But in truth I think that the robot was most competent in the first round (national knowledge), even if my answers do not reflect that. The order of the rounds is very important because people make decisions by comparing it to other things, and in the first round I couldn't compare it to anything.

I think neutral worked best, because the interactions were the most fluent, when the robot was speaking german, i feel it often used phrases and intonation that wasa bit ambiguous. I was impressed however by its explanations on high and low context cultures, and that it can adapt to personal preferences in regards to communication styles is intriguing.

I found Pepper much more capable and able to interact in the neutral modality. The conversation was faster and more fluent with respect to the Italian mode. Moreover, in neutral interaction the robot also showed social skills (e.g. irony). I consider the level of knowledge equivalent in both modalities.

Competency was rated lower as Pepper misunderstood "OK" in German as English and changed language despite a request to turn back to German.

It only changed slightly, as by the second interaction I felt more at ease with the robot

I noticed that at the last two trials the robot could give better answers. 

Yes, i changed my answers because Pepper during the 2° time stopped talking to me and it blocked, but the communication stye was better compared to the first one.  I think it did understand the type of communication that i prefered and used that one.

Yes, I changed some of my answers, because there was in the middle the other "way" that was the worst. Therefore, I think I was a bit biased from the fact that I knew that the Robot was not good as I saw in the first approach. So I think that my answers were a bit badly judging with respect to the first approach mostly because of this reason. But if I have to think about it know, I would say that with the last approach I was more comfortable (maybe because it was my third interaction with him)

i did answer shorter  just yes or no. want see pepper get boring

to start a conversation it was easier in the national knowledge setting but the responses were a bit more confusing and less structured. On the other hand in the natural approach it seemed easier for both and the conversation was not stucked. 

Yes. I felt that my last run was smoother and slightly more fun. The robot engaged with some interesting topics for me.

Yes, I did change my answers. I rated the robot higher in some categories when i interacted in the Neutral way, rather than when I interacted with it in the National Knowledge, because I found its communication style way more effective and direct when it was speaking English. 

I think when speaking my national language the robot was closer to my nationality and culture. 

I feel like in the neutral setting the robot was way more communicative and did not want to try and talk about a specific subject but rather wanted to see where the conversation is going. That was much better and did not feel forced and thus gave me the impression of it being more knowlageable and made it easier to talk to it. 

From the neutral to the national knowwledge I changed some of mz questionnaire feedback mainlz because of the language switching from English to German. Also, in the round with National Knowledge, it talked about things I could more rely to and therefore could interact with it on a more natural level.

In the national knowledge interaction I noticed that my answers to the questionnaire changed a lot in comparison with the neutral interaction. Indeed in the neutral interaction the robot was more capable, it could answer better my questions and could address better my needs. However in the national knowledge, it seemed to me as the robot couldn't really get what I was saying and answered completely different things. I think this happens since it was initially programmed with the english language and only afterwards with other languages (italian in this case) and hence it has more difficulties in understanding italian.

In the second interaction I felt the robot more knowledgeable, at the same time also less responsive. This because it showed to have a deeper knowledge on linguistical and cultural aspects of italian. However it seemed to me that the conversation was less natural and more "impostata", as if the robot had an agenda.

For me, interacting with somebody in English makes it feel like a professional or work-related conversation, as I have no cultural connection to any English-speaking country. On the contrary, when the robot spoke German to me, I felt more connected to what it said as it reminded me of interactions with friends and people from my home country. Additionally, I can express myself more freely in German compared to English, which is why I probably also felt more comfortable in the second setting with the National Knowledge. Nevertheless, I was still satisfied with the Neutral interaction (first scenario), since it seemed to actively respond and adapt to my answers.

My answers changed a lot in the questionnaire between 1. and 2. due to the language spoken by the robot. When it was speaking in Italian and asking me language questions I felt it nearer to my culture than when it was using English. The language didn't affect my answers on its performance (like how reliaiable and knowledgeble), but overall I believe my grades were higher in the National Knowledge case. Generally, I believe that sharing the language is very important in making human relations more straightforward and in creating a feeling of emotional proximity too.    

My answers changed based on the change of the language and based on the different interaction. I felt like the interaction with the robot was much more natural at the second interaction. I also changed the reliability idea, even if I don't know if I wasn't speaking loud enough or the robot couldn't hear for any reason.

Durante il metodo neutrale il robot non riusciva a cambiare lingua. L'ho visto meno capace rispetto a quando interagiva con National Knowledge. Il robot fa fatica a comprendere lo spazio di navigazione, ad esempio si è allontanato quando gli ho chiesto di avvicinarsi. Nel primo modo di interazione non mi ha chiesto se mi sentivo in conforto con la distanza fra me e lui. Cosa che ha fatto nel secondo. Mi sembra che è capcace ad interagine ed è molto attivo in entrambi i casi. 

I changed my interaction, when the robot was talking in german, because it feels more natural to talk in the native language. 

My ratings went slightly down just for a matter of respose accuracy to my own questions. The general ratings i gave, were given by taking into consideration that an AI's precision is based on the precision of the person's request, i suppose.

yes, my answers changed. In the second round I classified the robot as less competent and reliable, because it switched languages several times, and did not really respond to my questions in a way that made sense. I also classified the second round as less in-line with German culture and language, because the robot did not speak german and did not bring up statistics about Germany.

The main difference i noticed with the interactions was how the robot interacted with me on a personal level, meaning that with the national knowledge interaction the robot seemed more interested into asking questions about my interests and what I thought about certain topics (in my case it asked about what i thought about a globalized language and if i had any interests in the german culture/letterature). I definitly found that the national knowledge conversation was more natural and personal and if the robot wanted to talk with be and not about me, such in the case of the neutral interaction, which I found a bit odd and offputting, making me feel like i was trying to set a language setting. 

In my impression my last session was much more about national knowledge than my first session. But as for knowledge regarding germany and the german language I would say it did have a grasp have an understanding about it. But I had a hard time establishing a conversation with the robot because it didn^t properly go into what I said to it. For example there was an instant where I asked it about a certain part of the german language where Pepper just started talking about the architecture of german houses and bungalows and such, which was accurate, but not what I asked for. This behaviour also made it hard for me to converse with it in the neutral mode. It had a hard time understanding that I am german speaking and it had a hard time adapting to that. 

There was a big cultural gap and distance in minor conversational approaches. The reason for that i, because of certain approachstyles which reflect a territorial province of a country compared to an 'international wide spoken language' in itself. So on minor points the use of certain ways of approach are like tinny quirks which feel 'not al to familiar as in [the way I/we would talk in general]', but still makes it understandeble in 'assuption/guessing' ways. So it can create more or less small discomforts in speech, even if understandeble in a certain way. Its just something which doesn't sounds 'known familiar'. A reflection point is the way Pepper used the english language to communicate, BUT the sentence structure and this minor cultural approach in another language didn't match the same level of the 'regular english speaking Pepper', as a certain cultural background has some layered foundations in the other language.

In the third attempt, the robot was interrupting me. During the first attempt, the robot did not understand my question and continued with the normal prpcedure.

In the second round, national knowledge, i changed my style of question because I knew how the robotor would interact and what it wants to talk about. I don't think it was because of the national knowledge. I also did not recognize much difference between the first and the second round.  

in the first (english) interaction pepper was very responsive and would end sentences with a question, furthering the conversation. In the second interaction (german) however, pepper responded to questions but didnt ask as many, if ay. Pepper also responded imjediately in english but was often unresponsive in german.

Yes, my answers changed. Talking in your own language and about the own culture made it more comfortable to interact with Pepper. It felt more natural and personal.. 

Yes, between the neutral and the national knowledge, my answers changed somewhat. I perceived the robot to be more responsive and more capable in the neutral interaction than in the national knowledge one, primarily, because it seems that the robot understood me better using english. The robot however moved less in my impression in the national knowledge interaction, which was more comfortable for me. I think mainly that the robot, apart from speaking my langauge and having cultural knowledge, moved differently in both instances. But eventhough i felt more comfortable with the national knowledge instance concerning the robots movments, I preferred the instance where the robot undersood me better.

My answers were mostly silimilar across the two models, as the main differences were noticed between the adaptive one and the remaining two. The 1 and 2 models were friendly and seemed to care more chatting with me. The neutral model was slightly more friendly and seemed more interested in having a conversation, while keeping an easier register and a conversational language. However, the conversation was a little too sterotypical. The third one was a little more informed on my culture.

yes it did change. In the second interaction the robot was much more responsive to my requests and much more aligned with my culture and my country. It was talking in italian and about italian culture. In the first one it had not much knowledge or interaction with italian culture.

The National Knowledge mode felt the most useful and advanced. I felt like it actually replied to my inputs. Whereas the Adaptive mode was in my opinion the least useful, as it didn't seem to care what I asked or wanted. 

When the questionnaire changed to national knowledge interactions I felt slightly more comfortable and the robot was not too foreign. 

When the robot was neutral I found him a lot less talkative and interactive. When the robot was adaptive, he became more talkative and introduce topics himself. Finally, when the robot had national knowledge I found that he was talkative and bought up topics that had to do with languages and natinalities, however I did not feel a difference in attitude and perceived culture between the adaptive and national ways of interaction. In both cases he was interactive and talkative, the conversation topics varied but my perceived capability and responsivness of him was similar, whereas in the neutral I found him elss responsive and therfore less capable.

The neutral model was more responive to me than the national knowledge model. I did not perceive too many differences between the modules besides the responsiveness. The neutral and adaptive module were the most responive to me.

Yes they changed. I had the impression it is less responsive when it adapted to the national knowledge. Maybe it is harder for it to understand what the national preferences are or how German people like to interact. Programming human experience must be difficult.

The first two interactions were the smoothest and the robot understood German well and could respond my words in the target language. But it seems like in the adaptive mode it also tends to switch to Italian although it was unwanted. I tried to talk to the robot in German in the neutral mode but it failed to understand the question. All three modes had the problem that the robot struggled with the navigation task.

In the neutral mood, I experience a more dynamic conversation, where the  answers where actually making sense. Whether in the national knowledge I felt like it was answering me randomically. I haven't felt any particular connection in the national knowledge so for me he scoreda low point. That is also the reason why I gave him higher points in the neutral, where we interacted more sinnfully.

Yes, I did like the neutral interaction slightly more, because I think I never had to repeat my sentences and also the interaction was never going to deep. For my style, I'd rather have a shallower interaction with a robot/home assistant than have to engage in meaningful conversation.

I think in the first interaction it was rather a smalltalk. In the second conversation, when I could use my mother tongue, I was more experimental and asked any questions I liked. I think another reason for this difference was the fact that after the first interaction, I already knew how it works and I was not concerned about doing something wrong.

I am unsure whether my answers changed depending on the language and behaviour that Pepper did. As I speak a lot of English in my day-to-day life the language also comes quite natural to me. I do not recall particular differences in behaviour. Maybe in the first one it was further away from my position and looked away more. The conversation was also more general about household compared to the last condition where the interaction was about my cultural background's usual communication preferences. 

I perceived the first approach (i.e., Neutral) to be more schematic and guided, while the second one being more spontaneous and aligned with the robot set objectives.

I had the impression that the interction with the Neutral behavior was more plesant, this is probably also given from the fact that my second interaction was very short compeared to the first. In both interactions the robot appeared to have verz good knowledge even though it wanted just to speek about one topic.

no, I don't think it changed, I focused more on how the robot was interacting with me than in what language.

During the second session the interaction with Pepper was easier, since he understood me better, so he seemed more responsive and capable. So I also wrote that in the questionnaire. In the second session he also seemed to suggest things to talk about and in the first session I had to initiate more of the conversation or the topic choice, so it felt much easier to communicate with him during the second session

Yes, Interacting in German was easier and the task I gave Pepper was understood. The second interaction I talked more to Pepper and we interacted more, but Pepper did not always understand want I wanted and changed topics. It was more interactive, but not what I asked for

In the national knowledge round I had some interaction problems with the robot towards the end, that's the main reason behind the different ratings in the questionnaire. Overall however I don't think that the change in behaviour changed a lot my ratings in the questionnaire. The change in languages did also not effect a lot my ratings, has I use both languages daily, I am comfortable with both.
